src/Docusaurus/docs/tools/msbuild.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 20
---

# MSBuild

WiX v4 is available as an MSBuild SDK. SDK-style projects have smart defaults that make for simple .wixproj project authoring. For example, here's a minimal .wixproj that builds an MSI from the .wxs source files in the project directory:

```xml
<Project Sdk="WixToolset.Sdk/4.0.2">
</Project>
```

:::tip
SDK-style projects are easier to author but do work differently than "old" projects. For example, you might need to use explicit SDK imports to override the normal imports of SDK .props and .targets file. For more information, see the [MSBuild documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/how-to-use-project-sdk#use-the-import-element-anywhere-in-your-project).
:::

You can also create and edit SDK-style MSBuild projects in Visual Studio using FireGiant's [HeatWave Community Edition](https://www.firegiant.com/wix/heatwave/).

:::info
See [Signing packages and bundles](./signing.md) for information about signing packages and bundles when using MSBuild.
:::


## Properties

You can set the following properties in your .wixproj to control the build:

| Property | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| AdditionalCub | Semicolon-delimited list of .cub files to use during MSI validation. Default: darice.cub for .msi packages; mergemod.cub for .msm packages |
| BindFiles | When **true**, bind referenced files into the output file. Valid only when building .wixlib WiX libraries. Default: **false** |
| CabinetCreationThreadCount | Specifies the number of simultaneous threads used when building multiple cabinets. Default: The number of logical processors in the system. |
| CompilerAdditionalOptions | A string specifying arbitrary [Wix.exe command-line arguments](./wixexe.md) to use during the build. Default: none |
| DebugType | Specifies the .wixpdb output: *full* for full symbol information or *none* to suppress the .wixpdb. Default: *full* |
| DefaultCompressionLevel | Specifies the compression level used when none is specified via `MediaTemplate` or `Media`. Valid values are: *none*, *low*, *medium*, *high*, *mszip*. Default: *medium*. Default Wix.exe switch: `-defaultcompressionlevel` |
| DefineConstants | Semicolon-delimited list of **name**=**value** string pairs that specify preprocessor variable values. Default: none |
| Ices | Semicolon-delimited list of ICE validation names to run during MSI validation. Default: all available ICEs |
| IncludeSearchPaths | Semicolon-delimited list of paths to use to locate `<?include?>` files. Default: current directory |
| InstallerPlatform | Architecture of the package or bundle. Valid values are: *x86*, *x64*, *arm64*. Default: `$(Platform)`. Default Wix.exe switch: `-arch` |
| IntermediateOutputPath | Path used for intermediate outputs. Default: obj/*platform*/*configuration* |
| LinkerAdditionalOptions | A string specifying arbitrary [Wix.exe command-line arguments](./wixexe.md) to use during the build. Default: none |
| OutputType | Specifies the type of package being built. Valid values are: *Package*, *Module*, *Patch*, *PatchCreation*, *Library*, *Bundle*, *IntermediatePostLink*. Default: *Package* |
| Pedantic | If **true**, turns on pedantic warning messages. Default: **false** |
| SuppressAllWarnings | If **true**, turns off all warning messages. Default: **false** |
| SuppressIces | Semicolon-delimited list of ICE validation names to *not* run during MSI validation. Default: none |
| SuppressSpecificWarnings | Semicolon-delimited list of warning message numbers to turn off. Default: none |
| SuppressValidation | If **true**, turns off MSI validation. Default: **false** |
| TreatSpecificWarningsAsErrors | Semicolon-delimited list of warning message numbers to treat as errors. Default: none |
| TreatWarningsAsErrors | If **true**, treats all warning messages as errors. Default: **false** |
| ValidationAdditionalOptions | A string specifying arbitrary [Wix.exe command-line arguments](./wixexe.md#msi) to use during validation. Default: none |
| VerboseOutput | If **true**, turns on verbose messages. Default: **false** |


## Items

| Item | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| BindPath | Bind paths used to locate payload files. To create named bind paths, specify `BindName` metadata with the name of the bind path. |
| Compile | Files to compile. By default, the WiX SDK automatically includes all WiX authoring using the wildcard `**/*.wxs`. To control default items, see [the project SDK documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#default-item-inclusion-properties). |
| EmbeddedResource | Localization files used to build locale-specific packages. By default, the WiX SDK automatically includes all localization files using the wildcard `**/*.wxl`. To control default items, see [the project SDK documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#default-item-inclusion-properties).|
| WixLibrary | Paths to WiX libraries (.wixlib files) that contain authoring referenced by the package being built. |


## Project references

`ProjectReference` items to other projects are an MSBuild mechanism to ensure that a dependency project is built before the project that depends on it. For example, a .wixproj project depends on a .csproj project to ensure that the application to be installed is built before the .wixproj that installs it.  The WiX MSBuild targets extend `ProjectReference`s to create bind paths and preprocessor variables that contain useful information about dependency projects.

:::note
The WiX MSBuild targets create identifiers for bindpath and preprocessor variables from referenced projects. Characters that are invalid in those identifiers are replaced with underscores. (Identifiers begin with a letter or underscore and are optionally followed by alphanumeric characters, underscores, and/or periods.) For example, the space in `My Exe.csproj` will be replaced and `My_Exe` will be used as the bindpath and preprocessor variable name.
:::


### Bind paths

The WiX MSBuild targets create a bind path to the output directory of each referenced project. That means you can specify, for example, an .exe from a .csproj project using just the file name. For example:

```xml
<File Source="ConsoleApp42.exe" />
```


### Preprocessor variables

The WiX MSBuild targets create a number of preprocessor variables for each referenced project.

| Variable | Example | Example value |
| -------- | ------- | ------------- |
| _ProjectName_.Configuration |  $(MyProject.Configuration) | Release |
| _ProjectName_.FullConfiguration | $(MyProject.FullConfiguration) | Release\|ARM64 |
| _ProjectName_.Platform | $(MyProject.Platform) | ARM64 |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectDir | $(MyProject.ProjectDir) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\ |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectExt | $(MyProject.ProjectExt) | .csproj |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectFileName | $(MyProject.ProjectFileName) | MyProject.csproj |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectName | $(MyProject.ProjectName) | MyProject |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectPath | $(MyProject.ProjectPath) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\MyApp.csproj |
| _ProjectName_.TargetDir | $(MyProject.TargetDir) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\bin\Release\ |
| _ProjectName_.TargetExt | $(MyProject.TargetExt) | .exe |
| _ProjectName_.TargetFileName | $(MyProject.TargetFileName) | MyProject.exe |
| _ProjectName_.TargetName | $(MyProject.TargetName) | MyProject |
| _ProjectName_.TargetPath | $(MyProject.TargetPath) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\bin\Release\MyProject.exe |
| _ProjectName_.Culture.TargetPath | $(MyProject.en-US.TargetPath) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\bin\Release\en-US\MyProject.msi |
| SolutionDir | $(SolutionDir) | C:\source\repos\MySolution\ |
| SolutionExt | $(SolutionExt) | .sln |
| SolutionFileName | $(SolutionFileName) | MySolution.sln |
| SolutionName | $(SolutionName) | MySolution |
| SolutionPath | $(SolutionPath) | C:\source\repos\MySolution\MySolution.sln |


## Centralizing MSBuild properties and targets

Sometimes you need to add or modify several of the same properties in multiple MSBuild projects, like manufacturer name, copyright, product name, and so forth. Instead of editing every single project, you can manage properties from a central location in a file named Directory.Build.props.

:::info
Directory.Build.props is a feature of Microsoft.Common.props, which the WiX v4 MSBuild targets consume. The same is also true of Directory.Build.targets and Microsoft.Common.targets. [You can read more about this support here.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/customize-by-directory)
:::

To use Directory.Build.props, add it to the root of your project -- MSBuild will find the file in parent directories -- and give it a property group. For example:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Project>
  <PropertyGroup>
    <MyProductNameProperty>My Fancy Productname</MyProductNameProperty>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```

You can then reference `MyProductNameProperty`, for example, in other properties:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <Product>$(MyProductNameProperty)</Product>
</PropertyGroup>
```

To make property values available as preprocessor variables in your WiX authoring, add them to the `DefineConstants` property. For example:

```xml
<Project Sdk="WixToolset.Sdk/4.0.2">
  <PropertyGroup Label="Globals">
     <DefineConstants>MyProductNameProperty=$(MyProductNameProperty);</DefineConstants>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```

And then in your WiX authoring, you can use `$()` preprocessor syntax to refer to the MSBuild-property-turned-WiX-preprocessor-variable:

```xml
<Package Name="$(MyProductNameProperty)" ...
```

You can now modify the values of your properties in the `Directory.Build.props` file and all the properties in your solution's projects, including WiX projects will be updated.

Commit message:

Document that Solution variables are only available sometimes
You can only use Solution variables if you pass a .sln file to msbuild and not if you build an individual project in the solution

src/Docusaurus/docs/tools/msbuild.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 20
---

# MSBuild

WiX v4 is available as an MSBuild SDK. SDK-style projects have smart defaults that make for simple .wixproj project authoring. For example, here's a minimal .wixproj that builds an MSI from the .wxs source files in the project directory:

```xml
<Project Sdk="WixToolset.Sdk/4.0.2">
</Project>
```

:::tip
SDK-style projects are easier to author but do work differently than "old" projects. For example, you might need to use explicit SDK imports to override the normal imports of SDK .props and .targets file. For more information, see the [MSBuild documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/how-to-use-project-sdk#use-the-import-element-anywhere-in-your-project).
:::

You can also create and edit SDK-style MSBuild projects in Visual Studio using FireGiant's [HeatWave Community Edition](https://www.firegiant.com/wix/heatwave/).

:::info
See [Signing packages and bundles](./signing.md) for information about signing packages and bundles when using MSBuild.
:::


## Properties

You can set the following properties in your .wixproj to control the build:

| Property | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| AdditionalCub | Semicolon-delimited list of .cub files to use during MSI validation. Default: darice.cub for .msi packages; mergemod.cub for .msm packages |
| BindFiles | When **true**, bind referenced files into the output file. Valid only when building .wixlib WiX libraries. Default: **false** |
| CabinetCreationThreadCount | Specifies the number of simultaneous threads used when building multiple cabinets. Default: The number of logical processors in the system. |
| CompilerAdditionalOptions | A string specifying arbitrary [Wix.exe command-line arguments](./wixexe.md) to use during the build. Default: none |
| DebugType | Specifies the .wixpdb output: *full* for full symbol information or *none* to suppress the .wixpdb. Default: *full* |
| DefaultCompressionLevel | Specifies the compression level used when none is specified via `MediaTemplate` or `Media`. Valid values are: *none*, *low*, *medium*, *high*, *mszip*. Default: *medium*. Default Wix.exe switch: `-defaultcompressionlevel` |
| DefineConstants | Semicolon-delimited list of **name**=**value** string pairs that specify preprocessor variable values. Default: none |
| Ices | Semicolon-delimited list of ICE validation names to run during MSI validation. Default: all available ICEs |
| IncludeSearchPaths | Semicolon-delimited list of paths to use to locate `<?include?>` files. Default: current directory |
| InstallerPlatform | Architecture of the package or bundle. Valid values are: *x86*, *x64*, *arm64*. Default: `$(Platform)`. Default Wix.exe switch: `-arch` |
| IntermediateOutputPath | Path used for intermediate outputs. Default: obj/*platform*/*configuration* |
| LinkerAdditionalOptions | A string specifying arbitrary [Wix.exe command-line arguments](./wixexe.md) to use during the build. Default: none |
| OutputType | Specifies the type of package being built. Valid values are: *Package*, *Module*, *Patch*, *PatchCreation*, *Library*, *Bundle*, *IntermediatePostLink*. Default: *Package* |
| Pedantic | If **true**, turns on pedantic warning messages. Default: **false** |
| SuppressAllWarnings | If **true**, turns off all warning messages. Default: **false** |
| SuppressIces | Semicolon-delimited list of ICE validation names to *not* run during MSI validation. Default: none |
| SuppressSpecificWarnings | Semicolon-delimited list of warning message numbers to turn off. Default: none |
| SuppressValidation | If **true**, turns off MSI validation. Default: **false** |
| TreatSpecificWarningsAsErrors | Semicolon-delimited list of warning message numbers to treat as errors. Default: none |
| TreatWarningsAsErrors | If **true**, treats all warning messages as errors. Default: **false** |
| ValidationAdditionalOptions | A string specifying arbitrary [Wix.exe command-line arguments](./wixexe.md#msi) to use during validation. Default: none |
| VerboseOutput | If **true**, turns on verbose messages. Default: **false** |


## Items

| Item | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| BindPath | Bind paths used to locate payload files. To create named bind paths, specify `BindName` metadata with the name of the bind path. |
| Compile | Files to compile. By default, the WiX SDK automatically includes all WiX authoring using the wildcard `**/*.wxs`. To control default items, see [the project SDK documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#default-item-inclusion-properties). |
| EmbeddedResource | Localization files used to build locale-specific packages. By default, the WiX SDK automatically includes all localization files using the wildcard `**/*.wxl`. To control default items, see [the project SDK documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#default-item-inclusion-properties).|
| WixLibrary | Paths to WiX libraries (.wixlib files) that contain authoring referenced by the package being built. |


## Project references

`ProjectReference` items to other projects are an MSBuild mechanism to ensure that a dependency project is built before the project that depends on it. For example, a .wixproj project depends on a .csproj project to ensure that the application to be installed is built before the .wixproj that installs it.  The WiX MSBuild targets extend `ProjectReference`s to create bind paths and preprocessor variables that contain useful information about dependency projects.

:::note
The WiX MSBuild targets create identifiers for bindpath and preprocessor variables from referenced projects. Characters that are invalid in those identifiers are replaced with underscores. (Identifiers begin with a letter or underscore and are optionally followed by alphanumeric characters, underscores, and/or periods.) For example, the space in `My Exe.csproj` will be replaced and `My_Exe` will be used as the bindpath and preprocessor variable name.
:::


### Bind paths

The WiX MSBuild targets create a bind path to the output directory of each referenced project. That means you can specify, for example, an .exe from a .csproj project using just the file name. For example:

```xml
<File Source="ConsoleApp42.exe" />
```


### Preprocessor variables

The WiX MSBuild targets create a number of preprocessor variables for each referenced project.

| Variable | Example | Example value |
| -------- | ------- | ------------- |
| _ProjectName_.Configuration |  $(MyProject.Configuration) | Release |
| _ProjectName_.FullConfiguration | $(MyProject.FullConfiguration) | Release\|ARM64 |
| _ProjectName_.Platform | $(MyProject.Platform) | ARM64 |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectDir | $(MyProject.ProjectDir) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\ |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectExt | $(MyProject.ProjectExt) | .csproj |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectFileName | $(MyProject.ProjectFileName) | MyProject.csproj |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectName | $(MyProject.ProjectName) | MyProject |
| _ProjectName_.ProjectPath | $(MyProject.ProjectPath) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\MyApp.csproj |
| _ProjectName_.TargetDir | $(MyProject.TargetDir) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\bin\Release\ |
| _ProjectName_.TargetExt | $(MyProject.TargetExt) | .exe |
| _ProjectName_.TargetFileName | $(MyProject.TargetFileName) | MyProject.exe |
| _ProjectName_.TargetName | $(MyProject.TargetName) | MyProject |
| _ProjectName_.TargetPath | $(MyProject.TargetPath) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\bin\Release\MyProject.exe |
| _ProjectName_.Culture.TargetPath | $(MyProject.en-US.TargetPath) | C:\source\repos\ConsoleApp42\bin\Release\en-US\MyProject.msi |

The above variables are always available. The below variables are only available if you pass a `.sln` file to msbuild.

| Variable | Example | Example value |
| -------- | ------- | ------------- |
| SolutionDir | $(SolutionDir) | C:\source\repos\MySolution\ |
| SolutionExt | $(SolutionExt) | .sln |
| SolutionFileName | $(SolutionFileName) | MySolution.sln |
| SolutionName | $(SolutionName) | MySolution |
| SolutionPath | $(SolutionPath) | C:\source\repos\MySolution\MySolution.sln |


## Centralizing MSBuild properties and targets

Sometimes you need to add or modify several of the same properties in multiple MSBuild projects, like manufacturer name, copyright, product name, and so forth. Instead of editing every single project, you can manage properties from a central location in a file named Directory.Build.props.

:::info
Directory.Build.props is a feature of Microsoft.Common.props, which the WiX v4 MSBuild targets consume. The same is also true of Directory.Build.targets and Microsoft.Common.targets. [You can read more about this support here.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/customize-by-directory)
:::

To use Directory.Build.props, add it to the root of your project -- MSBuild will find the file in parent directories -- and give it a property group. For example:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Project>
  <PropertyGroup>
    <MyProductNameProperty>My Fancy Productname</MyProductNameProperty>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```

You can then reference `MyProductNameProperty`, for example, in other properties:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <Product>$(MyProductNameProperty)</Product>
</PropertyGroup>
```

To make property values available as preprocessor variables in your WiX authoring, add them to the `DefineConstants` property. For example:

```xml
<Project Sdk="WixToolset.Sdk/4.0.2">
  <PropertyGroup Label="Globals">
     <DefineConstants>MyProductNameProperty=$(MyProductNameProperty);</DefineConstants>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```

And then in your WiX authoring, you can use `$()` preprocessor syntax to refer to the MSBuild-property-turned-WiX-preprocessor-variable:

```xml
<Package Name="$(MyProductNameProperty)" ...
```

You can now modify the values of your properties in the `Directory.Build.props` file and all the properties in your solution's projects, including WiX projects will be updated.
