---
title: v3.11.0.705
date: 2016-07-05
files: [
  { "name" : "wix311.exe", "contentType" : "application/octet-stream", "size" : 24875464, "title" : "WiX v3.11 Toolset install.", "promoted" : true },
  { "name" : "wix311-binaries.zip", "contentType" : "application/zip", "size" : 28789658, "title" : "WiX v3.11 binaries for situations where install cannot be used.", "protected" : true },
  { "name" : "wix311-debug.zip", "contentType" : "application/zip", "size" : 47616041, "title" : "WiX v3.11 source and symbols for debugging purposes.", "protected" : true }
 ]
---

* @barnson: WIXBUG:5306 - Warn against ServiceConfig and ServiceConfigFailureActions.
* @barnson: Fix WIXBUG:5294 - Move MsiProperty check from ChainPackageInfo,
  where it was verifying MSI property names too early, to the compiler for the
  earliest feedback.
* @barnson for @firegiantco: Update FileVersionFromStringEx to handle "vVersion" syntax like FileVersionFromString.
* @barnson: Enable the WiX native SDK when the new Visual C++ Build Tools bundle is installed. Fixes WIXBUG:5279.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4810 - Fix bug where mbapreq tried to do something other than HELP or INSTALL.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:5308 - Make embedded bundles launch a clean room process so the BA runs in a consistent environment.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:5301 - Fix bug where file handles weren't being passed to the clean room process.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:5302 - Fix bug where the command line for burn exe packages had the executable path in the middle.
* FRichter: WIXBUG:5277 - burn engine: Always use the bundle source path for all purposes. The original source path is needed in all cases: for copying the bundle to the layout directory as well as for checking whether we're layouting to the bundle location.
* @barnson: Fix WIXBUG:5293 - Document illegal MsiProperty names.
RobMen: WIXBUG:5282 - reduce clean room security to successfully load BA's dependent on GDI+ (including WinForms).
* FabienL: WIXBUG:4976 - Add support for .net framework 4.6.1 in netfxExtension