title: v3.10.0.1719
builddate: 2015-05-19T21:32-07:00
files: [
  { "name" : "wix310.exe", "contentType" : "application/octet-stream", "size" : 24983680, "title" : "WiX v3.10 Toolset install.", "promoted" : true },
  { "name" : "wix310-binaries.zip", "contentType" : "application/zip", "size" : 28864663, "title" : "WiX v3.10 binaries for situations where install cannot be used.", "protected" : true },
  { "name" : "wix310-debug.zip", "contentType" : "application/zip", "size" : 47409246, "title" : "WiX v3.10 source and symbols for debugging purposes.", "protected" : true }
 ]

* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4761 - Use the package's exit code to tell if the prereq was installed.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4734 - Rewrote type-51 CAs using SetProperty.
* BobArnson: WIXFEAT:4720 - Added bind-time variables for .NET Framework package groups detect condition, install condition, and package directories.
* HeathS: Add VSIX property for VS2015 and fix searches for previous versions.
* BobArnson: Add libs_minimal.proj with just the libraries needed for tools/ tree build. This prevents the build from backing up behind a full libs/ tree build, which gets more painful the more versions of Visual Studio that are installed.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4750 - Add a note about binary (in)compatibility.
* RobMen: WIXBUG:4732 - fix documentation links to MsiServiceConfig and MsiServiceConfigFailureActions.
* BobArnson: WIXFEAT:4719 - Implement ExePackage/CommandLine:
  * Add WixBundleExecutePackageAction variable: Set to the BOOTSTRAPPER_ACTION_STATE of the package as it's about to executed.
  * Add ExePackage/CommandLine to compiler and binder.
  * Update Burn to parse CommandLine table in manifest and apply it during ExePackage execution.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4725 - Scrub the WixStdBA license doc and add a blurb about a missing WixStdbaLicenseUrl variable.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4721 - Tweak RepairCommand doc.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:4619 - Include WixUI dialogs and wxl files in core MSI.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:4618 - Include WixStdBA and mbapreq themes and wxl files in core MSI.
* JacobHoover: WIXBUG:4482 - Temp file for update feed isn't deleted when download fails
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4731 - Obscure hidden variable values in the logged command line.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4630 - Serialize all variables to the elevated Burn process.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:3933 - Make WixBundleManufacturer variable writable.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4700 - Added blurb about SequenceType.first.
* BobArnson: Project reference tweaks:
  - Removed unnecessary reference to setupicons from x64msi.
  - Move BuildInParallel=false from global to just project that needs it