---
title: v4.0.3226.0
date: 2015-08-26T09:46-07:00
---
* HeathS: WIXBUG:4775 - Always set WixBundleOriginalSourceFolder if not already set
* MikeGC: WIXBUG:4359 - In settings browser, display manifested displayname (instead of ID) for friendlier UI
* MikeGC: Refactor settings browser and make it more responsive, and less likely to show a "loading" screen (instead showing the most recent data until the new data is available)
* RobMen: WIXBUG:4817 - fix error message in OneTimeWixBuildInitialization.proj
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4804 - Add DAPI to get the right calling convention.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4180 - Add wixtoolset.org EULA service links.
* @barnson: WIXFEAT:4789 - Phase I of .NET Framework 4.6 support (RC, full redist).
* Lakmus85: WIXBUG:4614 - Validation added for the case when the project property is not empty (as stated in the comments to this method).
* RobMen: WIXBUG:4778 - initialize logging before anything else.
* JacobHoover: WIXBUG:4512 - fix WiX BA, prevent multiple install clicks
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4786 - Replace default WixUI license with lorem ipsum text.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4760 - Re-guid WixFolderNodeNonMemberProperties
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4597 - Fix project harvesting in heat for Tools version 12.0 and 14.0.
* BobArnson: WIXFEAT:4719 - Implement ExePackage/CommandLine:
  * Add WixBundleExecutePackageAction variable: Set to the BOOTSTRAPPER_ACTION_STATE of the package as it's about to executed.
  * Add ExePackage/CommandLine to compiler and binder.
  * Update Burn to parse CommandLine table in manifest and apply it during ExePackage execution.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4412 - Improve cache progress.
* HeathS: WIXFEAT:4663 - Default to language-specific major upgrades with option to ignore language.
* BMurri: WIXBUG:4532 - Make it an error for InstallPrivileges and InstallScope to both be specified.