---
title: v4.0.2926.0
date: 2015-05-26T01:18-07:00
---
* BMurri: WIXBUG:3750 - Add LaunchWorkingFolder to wixstdba to facilitate processes that require a different working folder.
* HeathS: Add VSIX property for VS2015 and fix searches for previous versions.
* HeathS: WIXBUG:3060 - Do not redownload package payloads when /layout is restarted.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4761 - Use the package's exit code to tell if the prereq was installed.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT: 4703 - Move the PrereqPackage information out of the NetFx extension and into the Bal extension so that the NetFx extension doesn't require the Bal extension.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4392 - Set WixBundleInstalled during Detect.
* MikeGC: Allow settings engine to detect installation state of products based on ARP reg key name, and add more UDMs
* MikeGC: WIXFEAT:4350 - Settings engine no longer keeps archives of all settings changes forever, it now has a reasonable expiration policy.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:4619 - Include WixUI dialogs and wxl files in core MSI.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:4618 - Include WixStdBA and mbapreq themes and wxl files in core MSI.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4731 - Obscure hidden variable values in the logged command line.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4630 - Serialize all variables to the elevated Burn process.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:3933 - Make WixBundleManufacturer variable writable.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4700 - Added blurb about SequenceType.first.
* SeanHall: Update builtin WixStdBA themes to use the new thmutil functionality.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:4411 - Be consistent about when a WixStdBA button is called Close or Cancel.
* SeanHall: WIXFEAT:4658 - Add builtin button functionality in thmutil.