---
title: v4.0.2719.0
date: 2015-03-19T17:05-07:00
---
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4520 - Added blurb about using a PayloadGroup to get offline capability for .NET redist.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4589 - Catch exceptions from Version when passing in arbitrary strings. For bundles, try to recover a four-part version number.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4545 - Resized button for de-DE.
* BobArnson: Add WixStdBALanguageId language and documentation.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4617 - Added 4.5.2 package group information to doc. Also mentioned that some properties are new to WiX v3.10.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4611 - Eliminate mysteriously doubled .pkgdef content.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4610 - Write RegisterPerfmonManifest CustomActionData correctly.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4553 - Fix Lux generator to exclude any files with non-fragment sections. Fix Lux custom actions to have proper config.
* PhillHogland: WIXBUG:4592 - Register named process, in another user's context with Restart Manager.  If Access Denied, continue install rather than fail.
* thfabba: WIXBUG:4681 - Corrected return type on the lone WOW64 redirection function that returns a BOOLEAN instead of BOOL.
* MikeGC: Fix an issue in ValueMatch() where we can in certain scenarios create unnecessary extra history entries. This is related to upcoming settings expiration feature.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4662 - Add WIX_IS_NETFRAMEWORK_4XX_OR_LATER_INSTALLED SetProperty custom actions to WixNetfxExtension.
* BobArnson: WixBroadcastSettingChange and WixBroadcastEnvironmentChange custom actions to WixUtilExtension.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4686 - Fix compiling WixBundlePackageExitCodeRow and WixBundleSlipstreamMsp.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4393 - Fix BOOTSTRAPPER_REQUEST_STATE_CACHE.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4689 - Fix hidden numeric and version variables.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4685 - Fix bug in mbahost where it didn't bind as the LegacyV2Runtime when necessary.
* BobArnson: WIXBUG:4654 - Add VS14 properties and custom actions. And, as it's a long topic, added anchors and links.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4669 - Fix bug in mbahost where it assumed that the CLRCreateInstance function was implemented when it exists.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:3747 - Remove define statements for Log and LogLine.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4480 - Remove non-standard and unnecessary regex contructs from wix.xsd.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4647 - Format ConfirmCancelMessage in WixStdBA.
* SeanHall: WIXBUG:4646 - Allow sharing the whole drive with util:FileShare.