root/documents/documentation/mailinglist.html.md, before:

---
under: Documentation
title: Mailing lists
subtitle: for the WiX toolset
keywords: wix toolset,wix,mailing list
layout: secondary
---

## Mailing lists

The mailing lists are a great place to ask questions, make suggestions, or discuss the WiX toolset with other users and the WiX developers. 
To help prevent spam on the WiX mailing lists, you must now subscribe to the lists before you can send e-mail to them. 
To subscribe click one of the "Join" links below and send the email or go to preferences web page.

**Reminder:** You must join the mailing list before being able send it email.


<h3 id="wix-users">WiX-users list</h3>

Mailing list for questions/discussion about the WiX toolset. This is the most active list and a great place to ask your questions
or lurk if you just want to learn.

View the [wix-users archive on WiX Toolset Lists](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/pipermail/wix-users-wixtoolset.org/)

[Join](mailto:wix-users-request@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=subscribe) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:wix-users-unsubscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=unsubscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/listinfo.cgi/wix-users-wixtoolset.org)


<h3 id="wix-devs">WiX-devs list</h3>

WiX toolset developer mailing list.

View the [wix-devs archive on the WiX Toolset Lists](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/pipermail/wix-devs-wixtoolset.org/)

[Join](mailto:wix-devs-subscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=subscribe) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:wix-devs-unsubscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=unsubscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/listinfo.cgi/wix-devs-wixtoolset.org)

Commit message:

Documentation takes over about and development topics.

root/documents/documentation/mailinglist.html.md, after:

---
under: Documentation
title: Mailing lists
subtitle: for the WiX toolset
keywords: wix toolset,wix,mailing list
layout: heronone
sidebarTitle: Additional information
sidebarItems: [
  { uri: "/documentation/",
    text: "Documentation home page" },
]
---

## Mailing lists

The mailing lists are a great place to ask questions, make suggestions, or discuss the WiX 
toolset with other users and the WiX developers. To help prevent spam on the WiX mailing 
lists, you must now subscribe to the lists before you can send e-mail to them. To subscribe 
click one of the *Join* links below and send the email or go to *Preferences* web page.

<h3 id="wix-users">WiX-users list</h3>

Questions and discussion about the WiX toolset. This is the most active list and a great place to ask your questions or lurk if you just want to learn.

[Join](mailto:wix-users-request@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=subscribe) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:wix-users-unsubscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=unsubscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/listinfo.cgi/wix-users-wixtoolset.org) | [Archive](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/pipermail/wix-users-wixtoolset.org/)


<h3 id="wix-devs">WiX-devs list</h3>

Questions and discussion about developing the WiX toolset.

[Join](mailto:wix-devs-subscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=subscribe) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:wix-devs-unsubscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=unsubscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/listinfo.cgi/wix-devs-wixtoolset.org) | [Archive](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/pipermail/wix-devs-wixtoolset.org/)
