root/src/documents/documentation/mailinglist.html.md, before:

---
under: Documentation
title: Mailing lists
subtitle: for the WiX toolset
keywords: wix toolset,wix,mailing list
layout: secondary
---

## Mailing lists

The mailing lists are a great place to ask questions, make suggestions, or discuss the WiX toolset with other users and the WiX developers. 
To help prevent spam on the WiX mailing lists, you must now subscribe to the lists before you can send e-mail to them. 
To subscribe click one of the "Join" links below and send the email or go to preferences web page.

**Reminder:** You must join the mailing list before being able send it email.


<h3 id="wix-users">WiX-users list</h3>

Mailing list for questions/discussion about the Windows Installer XML toolset. This is the most active list and a great place to ask your questions
or lurk if you just want to learn.

View the [wix-users archive on SourceForge](http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=wix-users)

[Join](mailto:wix-users-request@lists.sourceforge.net?subject=subscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/wix-users)


<h3 id="wix-devs">WiX-devs list</h3>

Windows Installer XML toolset developer mailing list.

View the [wix-devs archive on SourceForge](http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=wix-devs)

[Join](mailto:wix-devs-request@lists.sourceforge.net?subject=subscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/wix-devs)

Commit message:

Update pages to point to new mailing lists.

root/src/documents/documentation/mailinglist.html.md, after:

---
under: Documentation
title: Mailing lists
subtitle: for the WiX toolset
keywords: wix toolset,wix,mailing list
layout: secondary
---

## Mailing lists

The mailing lists are a great place to ask questions, make suggestions, or discuss the WiX toolset with other users and the WiX developers. 
To help prevent spam on the WiX mailing lists, you must now subscribe to the lists before you can send e-mail to them. 
To subscribe click one of the "Join" links below and send the email or go to preferences web page.

**Reminder:** You must join the mailing list before being able send it email.


<h3 id="wix-users">WiX-users list</h3>

Mailing list for questions/discussion about the WiX toolset. This is the most active list and a great place to ask your questions
or lurk if you just want to learn.

View the [wix-users archive on WiX Toolset Lists](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/private.cgi/wix-users-wixtoolset.org/)

[Join](mailto:wix-users-request@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=subscribe) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:wix-users-unsubscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=unsubscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/listinfo.cgi/wix-users-wixtoolset.org)


<h3 id="wix-devs">WiX-devs list</h3>

WiX toolset developer mailing list.

View the [wix-devs archive on the WiX Toolset Lists](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/private.cgi/wix-devs-wixtoolset.org/)

[Join](mailto:wix-devs-subscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=subscribe) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:wix-devs-unsubscribe@lists.wixtoolset.org?subject=unsubscribe) | [Preferences](http://lists.wixtoolset.org/listinfo.cgi/wix-devs-wixtoolset.org)
