---
title: InstallExecuteSequence Element
layout: documentation_xsd_main
---
<dl>
  <dt>Description</dt>
  <dd>None</dd>
  <dt>Windows Installer references</dt>
  <dd>
    <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/aa369500.aspx" target="_blank">InstallExecuteSequence Table</a>
  </dd>
  <dt>Parents</dt>
  <dd>
    <a href="../wix/fragment">Fragment</a>, <a href="../wix/module">Module</a>, <a href="../wix/product">Product</a></dd>
  <dt>Inner Text</dt>
  <dd>None</dd>
  <dt>Children</dt>
  <dd>Choice of elements (min: 0, max: unbounded)<ul><li><a href="../wix/allocateregistryspace">AllocateRegistrySpace</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Ensures the needed amount of space exists in the registry.</li><li><a href="../wix/appsearch">AppSearch</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Uses file signatures to search for existing versions of products.</li><li><a href="../wix/bindimage">BindImage</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Binds each executable or DLL that must be bound to the DLLs imported by it.</li><li><a href="../wix/ccpsearch">CCPSearch</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Uses file signatures to validate that qualifying products are installed on a system before an upgrade installation is performed.</li><li><a href="../wix/costfinalize">CostFinalize</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Ends the internal installation costing process begun by the CostInitialize action.</li><li><a href="../wix/costinitialize">CostInitialize</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Initiates the internal installation costing process.</li><li><a href="../wix/createfolders">CreateFolders</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Creates empty folders for components that are set to be installed.</li><li><a href="../wix/createshortcuts">CreateShortcuts</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the creation of shortcuts.</li><li><a href="../wix/custom">Custom</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Use to sequence a custom action.</li><li><a href="../wix/deleteservices">DeleteServices</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Stops a service and removes its registration from the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/disablerollback">DisableRollback</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Disables rollback for the remainder of the installation.</li><li><a href="../wix/duplicatefiles">DuplicateFiles</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Duplicates files installed by the InstallFiles action.</li><li><a href="../wix/filecost">FileCost</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Initiates dynamic costing of standard installation actions.</li><li><a href="../wix/findrelatedproducts">FindRelatedProducts</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Runs through each record of the Upgrade table in sequence and compares the upgrade code, product version, and language in each row to products installed on the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/forcereboot">ForceReboot</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Prompts the user for a restart of the system during the installation. Not fixed sequence.</li><li><a href="../wix/installexecute">InstallExecute</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Runs a script containing all operations spooled since either the start of the installation or the last InstallExecute action, or InstallExecuteAgain action.</li><li><a href="../wix/installexecuteagain">InstallExecuteAgain</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Runs a script containing all operations spooled since either the start of the installation or the last InstallExecute action, or InstallExecuteAgain action.</li><li><a href="../wix/installfiles">InstallFiles</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Copies files specified in the File table from the source directory to the destination directory.</li><li><a href="../wix/installfinalize">InstallFinalize</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Marks the end of a sequence of actions that change the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/installinitialize">InstallInitialize</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Marks the beginning of a sequence of actions that change the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/installodbc">InstallODBC</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Installs the drivers, translators, and data sources in the ODBCDriver table, ODBCTranslator table, and ODBCDataSource table.</li><li><a href="../wix/installservices">InstallServices</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers a service for the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/installvalidate">InstallValidate</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Verifies that all costed volumes have enough space for the installation.</li><li><a href="../wix/isolatecomponents">IsolateComponents</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Installs a copy of a component (commonly a shared DLL) into a private location for use by a specific application (typically an .exe).</li><li><a href="../wix/launchconditions">LaunchConditions</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Queries the LaunchCondition table and evaluates each conditional statement recorded there.</li><li><a href="../wix/migratefeaturestates">MigrateFeatureStates</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Used for upgrading or installing over an existing application.</li><li><a href="../wix/movefiles">MoveFiles</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Locates existing files on the system and moves or copies those files to a new location.</li><li><a href="../wix/msipublishassemblies">MsiPublishAssemblies</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the advertisement of CLR and Win32 assemblies.</li><li><a href="../wix/msiunpublishassemblies">MsiUnpublishAssemblies</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the unadvertisement of CLR and Win32 assemblies that are being removed.</li><li><a href="../wix/patchfiles">PatchFiles</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Queries the Patch table to determine which patches are to be applied.</li><li><a href="../wix/processcomponents">ProcessComponents</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers and unregisters components, their key paths, and the component clients.</li><li><a href="../wix/publishcomponents">PublishComponents</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the advertisement of the components from the PublishComponent table.</li><li><a href="../wix/publishfeatures">PublishFeatures</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Writes each feature's state into the system registry.</li><li><a href="../wix/publishproduct">PublishProduct</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the advertisement of the product information with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/registerclassinfo">RegisterClassInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the registration of COM class information with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/registercomplus">RegisterComPlus</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers COM+ applications.</li><li><a href="../wix/registerextensioninfo">RegisterExtensionInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the registration of extension related information with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/registerfonts">RegisterFonts</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers installed fonts with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/registermimeinfo">RegisterMIMEInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers MIME-related registry information with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/registerproduct">RegisterProduct</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers the product information with the installer.</li><li><a href="../wix/registerprogidinfo">RegisterProgIdInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the registration of OLE ProgId information with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/registertypelibraries">RegisterTypeLibraries</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers type libraries with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/registeruser">RegisterUser</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Registers the user information with the installer to identify the user of a product.</li><li><a href="../wix/removeduplicatefiles">RemoveDuplicateFiles</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Deletes files installed by the DuplicateFiles action.</li><li><a href="../wix/removeenvironmentstrings">RemoveEnvironmentStrings</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Modifies the values of environment variables.</li><li><a href="../wix/removeexistingproducts">RemoveExistingProducts</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Goes through the product codes listed in the ActionProperty column of the Upgrade table and removes the products in sequence.</li><li><a href="../wix/removefiles">RemoveFiles</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes files previously installed by the InstallFiles action.</li><li><a href="../wix/removefolders">RemoveFolders</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes any folders linked to components set to be removed or run from source.</li><li><a href="../wix/removeinivalues">RemoveIniValues</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes .ini file information specified for removal in the RemoveIniFile table if the component is set to be installed locally or run from source.</li><li><a href="../wix/removeodbc">RemoveODBC</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes the data sources, translators, and drivers listed for removal during the installation.</li><li><a href="../wix/removeregistryvalues">RemoveRegistryValues</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes a registry value that has been authored into the registry table if the associated component was installed locally or as run from source, and is now set to be uninstalled.</li><li><a href="../wix/removeshortcuts">RemoveShortcuts</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the removal of an advertised shortcut whose feature is selected for uninstallation or a nonadvertised shortcut whose component is selected for uninstallation.</li><li><a href="../wix/resolvesource">ResolveSource</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Determines the location of the source and sets the SourceDir property if the source has not been resolved yet. Not fixed sequence.</li><li><a href="../wix/rmccpsearch">RMCCPSearch</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Uses file signatures to validate that qualifying products are installed on a system before an upgrade installation is performed.</li><li><a href="../wix/schedulereboot">ScheduleReboot</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Prompts the user to restart the system at the end of installation. Not fixed sequence.</li><li><a href="../wix/selfregmodules">SelfRegModules</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Processes all modules listed in the SelfReg table and registers all installed modules with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/selfunregmodules">SelfUnregModules</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Unregisters all modules listed in the SelfReg table that are scheduled to be uninstalled.</li><li><a href="../wix/setodbcfolders">SetODBCFolders</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Checks for existing ODBC drivers and sets the target directory for each new driver to the location of an existing driver.</li><li><a href="../wix/startservices">StartServices</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Starts system services.</li><li><a href="../wix/stopservices">StopServices</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Stops system services.</li><li><a href="../wix/unpublishcomponents">UnpublishComponents</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the unadvertisement of components listed in the PublishComponent table.</li><li><a href="../wix/unpublishfeatures">UnpublishFeatures</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes selection-state and feature-component mapping information from the registry.</li><li><a href="../wix/unregisterclassinfo">UnregisterClassInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the removal of COM class information from the system registry.</li><li><a href="../wix/unregistercomplus">UnregisterComPlus</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes COM+ applications from the registry.</li><li><a href="../wix/unregisterextensioninfo">UnregisterExtensionInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the removal of extension-related information from the system registry.</li><li><a href="../wix/unregisterfonts">UnregisterFonts</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Removes registration information about installed fonts from the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/unregistermimeinfo">UnregisterMIMEInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Unregisters MIME-related registry information from the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/unregisterprogidinfo">UnregisterProgIdInfo</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Manages the unregistration of OLE ProgId information with the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/unregistertypelibraries">UnregisterTypeLibraries</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Unregisters type libraries from the system.</li><li><a href="../wix/validateproductid">ValidateProductID</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Sets the ProductID property to the full product identifier.</li><li><a href="../wix/writeenvironmentstrings">WriteEnvironmentStrings</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Modifies the values of environment variables.</li><li><a href="../wix/writeinivalues">WriteIniValues</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Writes the .ini file information that the application needs written to its .ini files.</li><li><a href="../wix/writeregistryvalues">WriteRegistryValues</a> (min: 0, max: unbounded): Sets up an application's registry information.</li></ul></dd>
  <dt>Attributes</dt>
  <dd>None</dd>
  <dt>See Also</dt>
  <dd>
    <a href="../wix">Wix Schema</a>
  </dd>
</dl>
